---
layout: post
title: "HW5: Chapter 4 and reflections"
---

Function: Dispense fuel, charge customer for specified amount of fuel. 

Description: Customer will swipe their credit card, specify amount of gasoline wanted, dispense fuel, then charge the customer. 

Inputs: Customer credit card swipe, Customer’s desired amount of fuel. 
Outputs: Amount of fuel dispensed, Amount of money to charge the customer’s card.

Requirements:

 Customer must have the means to collect the dispensed fuel, i.e. straight into their fuel tank or into a fuel safe receptacle.

Customer must have the means to purchase the fuel, i.e. Customer must have a credit card and money attached to it.

Customer must know the amount of fuel (in gallons?) they desire. 



Function: dispense cash 
Description: Customer inserts bank/atm card, selects the amount of cash desired. ATM dispenses desired amount of cash, returns bank/atm card to customer afterwards.

Inputs: Customer bank/atm card. Customer’s desired amount of cash. 
Outputs: Amount of cash dispensed.

Requirements:

Customer must have a bank account.

Customer must have an ATM/debit card.

Customer’s desired amount of cash shall not exceed amount of money in the customers account. 



		 
Function: Transfer funds from one bank account to another bank account within the same bank.

Input: “Sender” bank account number, “Receiver” bank account number. Amount of money to be transferred. 
Output: Success or failure to transfer funds, confirmation code.

Requirements: 

	Customer must have a bank account open with the specified bank. 
	
	Customer must know the account information of the receiving account. 
	
Customer’s “sender” account must have enough money to cover the transfer of funds without over drafting. 


Suggest how an engineer responsible for drawing up a system requirements specification might keep track of the relationships between functional and non-functional requirements.


An engineer responsible for drawing up a system requirements specification might keep track of the relationships between functional and non-functional requirements by producing a software requirement document in order to track, collect, and analyze the various requirements. Nonfunctional requirements are what the user expects from the software, while functional requirements are what is necessary for the software to work as intended. By explicitly listing all requirements, it allows the engineer and/or the team of engineers to accurately plan and design around those requirements without excessive conflict. 


Using your knowledge of how an ATM is used, develop a set of use cases that could serve as a basis for understanding the requirements for an ATM system.

1.	Customer inserts bank card into ATM, Customer selects withdraw $20 but only has $10.85 in his/her account. ATM alerts that the customer that the transaction cannot be placed. 
2.	Customer inserts bank card into ATM, but the bank card belongs to a different bank than the one the ATM is associated with. The customer selects withdraw $20. The customer has a sufficient amount of money to cover the transaction. Since the bank card is out of network, the ATM will alert the user to a possible surcharge for the convenience of the ATM. Customer will either proceed or decline the transaction. 
3.	Customer inserts bank card into ATM, Customer wants to deposit $100 into his/her account. Customer inserts cash into cash reader, Customer’s account reflects the deposit of $100 into the account. 
