---
layout: post
title: "HW3: Chapters 11 & 12"
---

What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

The common characteristic of all architectural styles geared to supporting fault tolerance is redundancy and diversity. By redundancy, I mean that hardware and its accompanying software should have many ‘failsafe’ systems in place, so that even if the primary system fails. The architecture style allows the state of system to recover without user action. By diversity, I mean that designers, so to speak, shouldn’t put all their eggs in one basket. In other words, relying on one hardware chip, or one method of computation, rendering, etc…, is dangerous because if for some unforeseen reason the system fails due to a design/hardware flaw, the whole system is brought to a halt, or at the least continues in a flawed state which could lead to phony inputs/outputs and thus errors. To mitigate this problem, implementing independent methods to the same task can decrease the likelihood of a common error across the whole system.

It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.


N-version programming is the idea that there are ‘N’ number of diverse versions of the same software running in parallel. These systems all have the same output goal, though they are implemented independently such that no two versions have the same design flaws or common errors, or at least that’s the hope. I believe N-version programming is a good way to ensure that a radiation therapy machine operates as intended, but I don’t think it’s the best way to go about creating a fault tolerant radiation therapy machine which can be just as, if not more harmful, to the patient than it does good. The problem with N-version programming is that it prioritizes a high availability, in my opinion I’d much rather have a reliable radiation therapy machine, than one that focuses on it being ready on demand. 

Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.

In a system that requires a high level of availability, the idea is that the software should be readily up-and-running, on demand, and quick to access. In a system like this its imperative that a software engineer handles all exceptions, quite literally due to the fact that an exception halts the program or, at the least, stops the user from accessing the system and doing meaningful work within it. By handling exceptions, it allows the system to go from a ‘exception state’ back to a ‘working state’ without it halting the system or leaving the user to figure out how to get the software to work as intended.





A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system: 

The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light. 
The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track. 

Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from the system safety requirements.

1.	Check the speed of the train compared to the transmitted speed limit for a segment of track. If the speed of the train exceeds the speed limit, then signal to slow down. 
2.	If the system indicates a red light on an upcoming segment of track, then apply the brakes.
3.	Check that the transmitted inputs are valid, in other words, make sure the speed is a number in a valid range, and the signal status is a valid Boolean (for example, green=true, red=false)
4.	Validate that the action called for, as a consequence of the signal status or speed limit, actually happens. 
5.	Account for cases where the main system requirements are broken, such that a train is traveling on a red-light signal segment, even though it shouldn’t ever do that. If that’s the case, hard brake.
