---
layout: post
title: "HW10: Chapter 15"
---
15.10. The reuse of software raises a number of copyright and intellectual property issues. If a customer pays a software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? Does the software contractor have the right to use that code as a basis for a generic component? What payment mechanisms might be used to reimburse providers of reusable components? Discuss these issues and other ethical issues associated with the reuse of software.

Many of these cases wherein the issue of copyright and intellectual property regarding code boil down to a NEED for a clear, open, and direct communication between the customer and software contractor. 
	
 If a customer pays a software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? In this case, again we should expect a clear dialogue of the expectations of the developed code in regard to reuse between client and contractor. Though hypothetically if there were no distinction regarding the software reuse, I believe the software contractor should have the right to reuse the developed code. Note the “should”, there are too many factors to say for certain. What if the developed system was based on proprietary information from the customer? Well in that case maybe the right to reuse should fall on to the customer. 
Well in the spirit of hypotheticals, what if the customer paid X% more money in order to guarantee the software fits specifically to the business model of the customer, i.e. this isn’t just generic code but specified towards the customer. In this case I’d say the right falls onto the customer. Again, all of this reiterates the fact, there needs to be clauses in the contract between the customer and software contractor to specify these open-ended questions. In conclusion, Lawyers should be present.
	
Another area where these issues are blurred is in projects that reuse, or they themselves are, open-source projects. Who “owns” the code? Certainly, it isn’t ethical to release open-source code for profit, how could anyone account for the various developers that contributed to the code? I suppose there could be some form of “royalties”, similar to how an artist makes money, though at that point I would imagine the team behind the project would privatize their codebase. 
