---
layout: post
title: "HW1: Chapter 1"
---

1.3: What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four
other attributes that may sometimes be significant.

  1. There should be a clear and well-managed process outlined when developing software, especially with a team.
  2. Professional software should be dependable and perform without failure when required. Thoughtful resource management/security
  3. The software should do what the customer or user expects it to do, meaning there must be thoughtful deliberation on the expections of the deliverable software. 
  4. Cut back on redundant code throughout a piece of software, for the purpose of resource management but also in order to keep the project clear and concise.
  
  Some other attributes that may also be siginficant in the development and use of software are: 
  
  1. Good communication throughout the development team.
  2. Emphasis on the security of the software in regard to the safety and privacy of the user.
  3. Extensive testing for all cases, proper error checking and handling. 
  4. Clear and concise comments and documentation. 

1.8: Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or
lawyers.
    
  Software engineers, like any other profession that involves the use of private data, personal information, and company confidentiality, must uphold a high standard of ethics. In the same way a doctor is taught to conduct him/herself with impartiality and the upmost care for their patients, a software engineer must do the same in their respective field. I personally don't believe ALL professional software engineers should be licensed to the same riguourous standard as a doctor or lawyer. I believe professional software engineering encompasses a large variety of fields and niches with their own ethical and technical standards. I am not against the idea of licensing professionals in certain areas of software engineering that DEMAND a strict level of legal, ethical, and moral standards. For example, technology such as remote surgery where a doctor can remotely operate on a patient demands a high level of awareness to the various personal and legal challenges that could be faced with such a technology. In such a case, and many others I did not mention, I find it imperitive to have some form of licensing, or accountability at the least.
