---
layout: post
title: "HW13: Chapter 17"
---

17.10 Your company wishes to move from using desktop applications to accessing the same functionality remotely as services. Identify three risks that might arise and suggest how these risks may be reduced.

1. Data Security.  
  By switching to services instead of local applications, the company's data (customer's) is uploaded to the cloud where the service is then rendered instead of being processed "in-house". This opens up the possiblity for data breachs, leaks, and other data security oriented problems. In order to reduce the risk factor, the company may: limit the exposure of sensitive data to third party services or perform their due dilligence on the security procedures of the third party service to ensure it will properly secure data. 
2. Lack of control over software evolution.  
  When functionality is offloaded to a third-party service there is a risk that the third-party will modify or add/remove functionality as they see fit. This can be problematic if the company has a heavy reliance on the now, hypothetically, unsupported functionality. Ways to minimize this risk is to ensure that, even without the services being rendered by the third-party, the company is still able to keep their own services live (redundancy: keep a backup system). Also the company should keep close contact with the development team's announcements of changes to their system so that the company can properly prepare for the possible faults it may cause. 
3. Laws and Regulations.  
  There are many laws and regulations regarding the collection, storage and, management of data. While a company may have no problem being compliant to the law with their data usage, if they offload functionality to a third-party service there's no guaruntee that the third-party is compliant with the law/regulations of the Country where the "company" resides. Ways to minimize this risk include: selecting services that operate under the same jurisdiction of the law, performing due dilligence on the regulatory/legal practices of the third-party service, and throughly understanding the laws and regulations that dictate the use of data in software. 
