---
layout: post
title: "HW20:Team Progress II"
---

As we continued to work on the project, we were worked on our output display to be more verbose. After ALOT of tinkering with HTMLTestRunner and its jinja2 (Jinja is a web template engine for the Python programming language) template file, we finally crafted a good-looking, informative, and intuitive test result output page. While it wasn't so difficult to work this out, it was very time consuming. I had never seen jinja2 before, but it appeared to function similarly to how PHP would work inside an html file (think <?php do php stuff ?> followed by another <?php > to end the php code functionality) and since I'm already in the server-side web programming course I took on the challenge. Now I can't say with 100% certainty that I know exactly how everything works within this template.html but I do understand what I needed to add/change in order to create a usable display for the test results. Yay! no problems here... but then... 
After a 4 hour zoom meeting with the team to nail down the output we had finally resolved it. Matt pushed the changes to Github and we all called it a day. It wasn't until the next zoom meeting that we realized something horrific had happened... When Matt pushed it didn't push the template.html. It was gone, lost, irrecoverable, and the whole team cried a collective tear because while we had a somewhat firm understanding of the changes we made to the file, the template.html is a confusing mess of html tags most of which is seemingly irrelevant to what we wanted to do. So cue another long zoom call to rework out how we did it. Not to worry though we figured it out once again and make sure to push the relevant files :). At this point the testing framework is really starting to come together, the test cases seem repetitive because there's only so much we can test on the front end of an application. Looking forward now, we just need to tidy up everything, comment and document, create some more test cases, then implement faults to ensure our test cases are worth the paper they're written on, so to speak of course ;) 
