---
layout: post
title: "HW18: Chapter 21 and Chapter 22"
---

Explain why an object-oriented approach to software development may not be suitable for real-time systems.   
  
Real-time systems, by nature, are process oriented. These systems must be able to quickly respond to cues from virtual signals or physical sensor data which is why they are often implemented as dedicated systems, not built on top of other systems, like Windows for example, there needs to little to no delay in the triggering of a real-time system. For this reason, an object-oriented approach to the development of the real-time system wouldn’t be suitable due to its compiling, optimization, memory overhead, also more than likely it’s just not needed. For example a real-time weather system that alerts to changes in barometric pressure doesn’t really need objects to represent its data, it just sends out its data stream/signal/etc.. as the system design requires.   
  
Fixed-price contracts, where the contractor bids a fixed price to complete a system development, may be used to move project risk from client to contractor. If anything goes wrong, the contractor has to pay. Suggest how the use of such contracts may increase the likelihood that product risks will arise.   
  
While I can understand the desire to move project risk to the contractor, offloading this risk exposes the client to more risk. This risk being receiving a product that may ‘work as specified’ but is riddled with bugs/emergent properties/unexpected behaviors due to the fact the contractor had to cut the testing budget to get the product delivered within budget. It’s unclear who would be at fault in the instance the contractor must pay out of pocket in order to meet the deadline. Would it be the contractor for failing to gauge the amount of money needed to complete the project fully and as a result restructuring the development process to finish ASAP and for the cheapest price? Or would it be the Client for presenting the fixed-price contract for something as unpredictable as the development of an entire system? Hard to say. But I do know that no one wants to go broke. Obviously the contractor will cut corners to avoid paying out of pocket, they won’t be in business for long if they keep digging into the savings account to finish projects. While the client may sneak by the risk of a money pit project, the risk of a subpar product increases greatly.  
