---
layout: post
title: "HW6: Chapter 2"
---

Suggest the most appropriate generic software process model that might be used as a basis for managing the development of the following systems. Explain your answer according to the type of system being developed: 



A system to control antilock braking in a car

The most appropriate generic software process for a system that controls the antilock braking in a car would be the waterfall method, more specifically the formal system development. The formal system development uses mathematical models of the system in order to create consistent and accurate code. This software process is imperative to use in this context because it’s safety critical. The developers of the system need to actually prove that their system works as intended, is available, and reliable. To prove such a thing, there must be extensive requirement definitions, software design plans, and testing which is why the waterfall method is the most appropriate. Incremental development would be detrimental in this context. There’s no room for incremental change when human lives are at risk.


A virtual reality system to support software maintenance

The most appropriate software process for a virtual reality system to support software maintenance would be incremental development. Maintaining software is not a one-off task. As a piece of software changes through development, so too does the maintenance aspect of the software changes. So, it makes sense to incrementally develop such a system. Release an initial version, gain insights from users as to what works, what doesn’t, what needs to change, what needs improvement then rerelease the improved version and continue to build upon it. 
Waterfall method doesn’t apply because, again, there’s no fixed task or goal of the system, unlike the antilock braking system where it IS a fixed task. 

A university accounting system that replaces an existing system

The most appropriate generic software process for a university accounting system that replaces an existing system would be “integration and configuration”. The idea is that while the university wishes to replace the existing system for some reason (buggy, outdated, etc…), the university doesn’t actually need to scrap the old system. Identify the existing problems, plan and design how to fix these problems, then test the new system extensively. It’s much more cost effective process in this context than the waterfall method or incremental development, because the core functionality is, most likely, operable so there’s no need to spend time and money completely redeveloping the system. 

An interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact

The appropriate software process is not as obvious in this hypothetical, but I believe the best option would be incremental development. By incrementally developing an interactive travel planning system to help users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact it allows for step by step changes based around the users’ preferences and feedback. What makes a trip have a low environmental impact? These are initially answered by the developers but with incremental development the system will transform into what the users believe a low environmental impact trip is. 
