---
layout: post
title: "HW11: Chapter 9"
---

8.7. Write a scenario that could be used to help design tests for the wilderness weather station system.

		User logs in to the system in order to check rain conditions of a certain area.
		
		User then specifies the area in which s/he wants to see the rain conditions for.
		
		User is then presented with the specified data for the specified location. 
	
		User then notes the information s/he wished to find and then logs out. 
    

8.10. A common approach to system testing is to test the more important functionalities of a system first, followed by the less important functionalities until the testing budget is exhausted. Discuss the ethics involved in identifying what “more important” means.

In reality, I believe the meaning of “more important” is constrained by money. If it costs a lot of money to test a certain component, then the “importance” of those tests may drop. Though like many other cases in Software development, its imperative that there is clear dialogue about the importance of certain functionalities between the customer and developer. A certain developer may weigh a certain component higher than another developer would, or even the customer would. The problem with ordering system testing from “more important” to “less important” is that bugs from “less important” components may infiltrate “more important” components leading to unexpected behavior, though because the component was deemed “less important” and the testing budget was already exhausted, hypothetically speaking, the team was never made aware of such a defect. 
